I have this large fubiclature and we will see that at the trunk level, it will generate
quite a few digestive phenomena that will appear.
And one of the first digestive phenomena that we will study, we have already studied a
little bit about the thyroid, parathyroid, etc.
But this time, we will study the movement of lung development, which can be considered
as a gland.
A quick reminder of this flexion movement, you see the amniotic cavity, vitelline
cavity, the heart, and we will see this movement of the amniotic cavity organized
by this
growth here, and we see the appearance here of this anterior digestive tube,
with small
diverticula, and we will gradually begin to see that it will continue, and
in this
space a pulmonary zone, a pure digestive zone, will be drawn,
etc., which we will study,
and we see here the pulmonary mouths for example.
the appearance of a suction field.
You remember, at some point,
we see that the embryo makes a flexion movement.
After the flexion movement,
I have a lengthening, stretching movement.
But I also have this growth movement.
And in the end, I will have this straightening movement.
At some point, I have a brake.
And I have my growth.
And in this growth phenomenon,
between the 18th and 22nd day.
I really have a kind of coiling.
At that moment, I will have the closure of my neural tube
which begins to occur along the entire longitudinal line.
Closure of my anterior neuropores, my posterior neuropores on the 28th day.
Reintegration of my external coelom into an internal coelom.
I reintegrate the system, 28th day.
But around the 26th day, in this phenomenon,
I found...
suddenly a lengthening process at the same time as the closure of a
neuropore which occurs around the 26th day. I have a lengthening of my embryo. In
this lengthening phase of my embryo, the endodermal tissue, the primitive
digestive tube, at the level of the middle part of my inferior intestine, there
is
a suction field between the developing diaphragm, posterior part, my neural tube and my
primitive
by the straightening phase, I suddenly have a kind of field that does this in the
very endoderm, a space that is created, and it's as if the tissue is sucked,
you see,
towards this 24th day at the level of the future mouth, let's say something
like that, and
well, here there is a suction field that will develop here, and it happens in the straightening
phase of my embryo, and around the 20th
sixth day, I have my first laryngotracheal diverticulum
that appears, my bronchial
buds that begin to arrive. In fact, it is linked to a biodynamic process
of development in a suction phase. In terms of the suction field, all
glands always developed from an epithelial tissue, whether they were
endodermal
or ectodermal. This corresponds to what is called a tissue.
of limits or boundaries.
This means that the lungs come from a digestive type tissue, in quotation marks.
marks.
And we will see that little by little, this lung will be more and more sucked to the left
and to the right,
and in fact, it will gradually form what are called the main bronchi,
from my trachea, to the left, to the right,
and that it will start to form segmental branches, etc.,
to occupy spaces as best as possible.
Don't forget that it's always a genetic response.
But genes are not the engine.
It is the environment that stimulates the system each time.
If I put a seed, as I say, in a fridge, nothing happens.
In an adequate environment, it stimulates its potential.
At this level, the genetic system is released into a space organized by
an environment,
in a global growth process.
I also see what we did appearing here.
around this lung, a kind of peritoneum, a visceral pleura and a
parietal pleura.
And we see that it completely wraps this tissue here.
So we add a fascial environment of mesodermal, somatopleural type,
which is also extra-embryonic, but which therefore encloses, wraps my lung
and which functions together.
And it is also in relation to the suction field.
From the start, it doesn't come later, it's there immediately.
It is even the important one in this suction field, the other one only follows.
It is in this same phase of development, the diaphragm at the beginning, very early, takes its origin
on a neurological level at the third cervical, 3-4.
The phrenic nerve is very, very high, it is the global growth that makes this
phrenic nerve lengthen.
It's not that it descends, it's that the whole system grows and lengthens it.
but its origin is very high.
Parietal type pain can be referred to
the upper limbs
or in the shoulders precisely in relation to this phrenic relationship.
And give this flow of information that referred pain
can be the expression of a pathology, let's say, subdiaphragmatic.
It's not the fulcrum for straightening,
it's actually the phenomenon of sclerotics at the vertebral level.
So it's your vertebral column in formation.
That is to say, a loss of fluid on a simple dynamic level.
And so I have a new point that changes and straightens with a vascular change that reserves itself.
So it is the entire posterior zone that becomes a fulcrum for your straightening phase.
At first, I do this, it's my heart.
And then, behind, it's the fulcrum for straightening.
Densification occurs around.
You remember, at some point, you have the integration of the external coelom into an internal coelom.
internal. You have a tissue around
called the somatopleure and the
splanchnopleure. It already takes its
origin at this level. And then it will be
reintegrated into the system
global internal, which will
form, among other things, a part of my
peritoneum and a part of my pleura. It must be remembered
that it is the pull that contains
the lung that is here.
I'm going to start explaining to you how a peritoneum clearly works.
what is a peritoneum? How is it
built?
what is its function?
Because it is a highly intelligent tissue.
intelligent tissue. Well, we can consider
that this visceral pleura
parietal, it is also
a kind of peritoneum.
But a peritoneum that we don't call
peritoneum, but which we call pleura at this stage.
So it's an exchange tissue,
it's an informative tissue,
it's a support tissue,
it's a tissue that participates
in the best possible adaptation
possible and which completely knows
completely the information here.
But already, we see that there is a link,
for example, interesting,
a meeting point
between a tissue, what we call a visceral
pleura and a parietal
pleura, at the level of the
pulmonary hilum. And what is the pulmonary
hilum? It's a very interesting
space because it's a space
that is both aerial,
fluidic,
lymphatic
and neurological.
in which there is a gas exchange in a partial pressure.
This will give us a kind of axis at the level of my lung.
I have a very important meeting place here.
It's a place where the lung will tilt.
At the moment of my inspiration, it makes a movement.
These are my bronchi, you see, which are there.
And this is my attachment here.
Here, I am placed, there is a small rotational movement that occurs,
a small spiral movement around.
of its lungs because at the moment of inspiration the top goes slightly backwards and
the bottom
goes slightly forward but at the same time the lung lengthens in an external rotation
like this
like this also not only does it make a rotational movement on its pulmonary hilum
which is a meeting place of the visceral pleura and the parietal pleura it lengthens
and we see here that I have not only air but I also have my
arteries
my veins and I have lymphatic system passing through. There is a balance that is
dependent
on various pressures, which is therefore dependent on a residual volume contained in the
bronchus,
with the trachea, and there is a space, it's as if this lung was resting
on a bubble
of air on which the lung runs, which is never inspired, expired, but which
exchanges after
a certain number of breaths. And we will learn to use this air pocket,
of air which is a constant partial pressure as if we were going to take it in hand and we will
potentialize the lung around this partial pressure to redynamize
my alveolar
pressure in its globality and free the lung in its unity, it is a sphincter,
it is
a bronchial tree and also something else, a fascial system, so I have both a
fascial tissue that
must articulate but which is deposited on an air bubble.
Why? Because there is a residual volume in the lungs.
When I inhale, it must be free.
There must be these rocking movements, forward, backward, during my inspiration.
I must have an endorotation and exorotation movement.
So all my ribs must be free and all my endothoracic fascia
must be free.
Work on this lung in its aspiration phase.
We will redo its embryonic movement.